# Reflection

Our project examined data that included several types of crimes in the City of Chicago (excluding homicides) and whether someone was arrested for an incidence or not during the years 2015-2021.  We applied the Random Forest Classifier machine learning algorithm against the features of type of the crime, location, month, time, and the district in which the crime occurred.   We were able to predict an arrest with an accuracy of 87.5%.  Other analyses revealed that most types of crime results in arrests rates below 50% and that the type of crime and arrest rates vary across districts. Lastly, most arrests for crimes occur during the evening hours.	

For my role in the project, I contributed to the analyses that did not include machine learning. Using Tableau, I created visualizations and drafted the commentary regarding the results of these visualizations. I created the draft of the Tableau storyboard and Google Slides. Regarding the other components of the project, I participated in group discussions, gave feedback in Slack as well as Zoom meetings and ultimately drafted the ReadMe for the entire project including the machine learning results and database creation. Throughout all segments of the project, I solicited feedback for all drafts and incorporated suggestions of other team members into the final presentation.  The biggest challenge during this project was lack of internet and low cell signal while I was having to care for a family member recovering from surgery. I was able to work in the local library during the day to complete my portion of the project and then move to a local McDonald’s when the library closed to Zoom with my classmates. 

Most of our communication among team members was conducted via Zoom. Before ending each Zoom session, we scheduled our next meeting (if outside of class time) as well as our “to-do” list for each member. In between meetings we communicated with the Slack app. Our team communicated nicely with each other and overall worked very well together. We set timelines that were comfortable for all members for when certain items were to be completed. 
It was easy to give feedback as no one took anything personally. Our biggest challenges were internet issues, and one team member had his computer crash. We weathered the storm through patience with each other and encouragement. No project information was lost during the crash since we were using GitHub.  

One tip I would give another team as they begin the project is to remind every member of the group to read the rubric to make sure the expectations are understood. Also, even though you are working on a group project, don’t be afraid to break off into pairs to work on a smaller piece of the project together or to ask help from other team members if you are struggling with the task that you have been assigned. Communication is key and there is no room for personal feelings in the project. We focused on what needed to be done and took care of business. Veni, vidi, and vici!
